High in this video we're going to switch to code for rounding.
So let's go ahead and take a look at that.
Now the round function is built into Python so it's not in the math library in the math module.
It's just built in.
So it's right there you can do help on it if you want.
Or just refer to the last video where we talked extensively about the ROUND function.
So let's just go ahead and do some examples.
So I want to talk about round when we only specify a single parameter which is the number we want to
run.
Then this means that our digits.
And as we had in the previous video defaults to 0 and so when we do that we'll get a some a will have
a value which should be 2.
Right.
We're going around 1.9 to the closest integer which should be too.
But I also want to look at the type of pay and as you can see a got round to 2 and the type of a wasn't
in price.
So it actually cast 1.9 and returns a two integer type.
That's not the same thing that happens if you were to say around 1.9 and then make an equal to zero.
Right now it's the same thing it's still going to around 1.9 to 2.
But because we have specified the second parameter it's going to keep the type the type that gets returns
will be the type that was passed.
And so that's the only difference between those two variants it doesn't really matter because of the
polymorphism we don't care a whole lot and because of the non-static typing We don't care a whole lot
about whether this is an int or float but it's for the to know that that's happening.
All right.
So let's go ahead and start looking at positive.
Right.
So in other words I want to look at and greater than zero kind of examples and just go ahead and do
this.
Round 1 point 8 8 8 8 3 them is we're going around to three digits after the decimal point or that's
probably easier to understand we're going to round to the closest multiple of 10 to the negative 3 to
the closest multiple of zero point zero zero or 1 No.
And so I want to show you the progression this way so we'll do that take the same number.
Round two and then we'll round 1.8 888 to 1 and we can even run 1.8 8 0 right which we've seen before.
So there you go.
Right.
We ran to the thought.
So we keep basically three digits after the decimal point here we kept 2 1 and 0 1.
They're just multiples of 10 to the negative 3.
Right.
The last digit here is is a multiple of 10 to the negative 3 1.8 9 that 9 is a multiple of 10 to the
negative 2.
So so that's positive.
Now we can also have negative values for and this is where you may not be used to that.
So let's take a look at it.
And so we'll keep 4.
And less than zero.
Okay.
And let's try this non-guilty use a slightly different number because now we're going to be rounding
to the left of the decimal point.
So I want to use a bigger number than 1 point something.
So let's use a 8 date point a date and go around that to one after the decimal point I'd sort of show
you the progression then we'll round 8 8 8 8 8 2 0.
I'm going to use my line continuation.
Remember that one of the other variables and then we're going to do round the eighty eight point eight.
Now let's start with the negatives negative 1 Round 8 8 8 8 8 negative 2 Round 8 8 8 4 8 negative 3
and for good measure we'll throw in as well.
Eight eight eight point eight eights negative four.
And we'll see what happens.
All right so paid eighty eight point nine right.
That's because there was one after the decimal point zero point eight eight.
Right.
It just rounded to the closest multiple of 10 to the 0 and to the negative 0 which is 1.
So the closest integer.
Now look here.
When we switch to negative numbers it's rounding this number to the closest multiple of 10 to the one
which is 10 so it's wrong to the closest multiple of 10 the code has multiple of 10 to this number is
eight hundred ninety this one it's rounding to the closest multiple of ten to the negative negative
to which is 10 to the two which is a hundred to two closest multiple of 100 for the closest multiple
of 100 to 8 8 is 900.
Now what about this one we're looking to run tend to the negative negative Friso tend to freeze a thousand
to the closest multiple of 1000.
The closest multiple of 1000 is 8 8 8 8 8.
Now what about this last one.
Why is it suddenly 0 1 What are we doing here.
We're looking at rounding 8 8 8 8 8 to the closest multiple of ten to the four right which is 10000.
Well 8 8 8 is closer to zero which is a multiple of 10000 than 10000 does.
Now if we're done rounding something I was a little closer to 10000 let's say nine thousand eight hundred.
Now we do that they will get 10000 right.
But if we do something that's smaller that's closer to zero then we'll get there.
Remember it's rounded to the closest multiple OK.
So the next thing I want to talk about are ties.
So we really haven't seen that in the code yet.
I've purposely left that out.
So let's go ahead and take a look at what happens when we have ties when we're running.
What I mean by ties is that we're rounding to the closest multiple remember of some Power of 10 and
the two closest multiples are actually equal distance.
So we have a tie and we need some rule to do tiebreaking so we can take a look at this example let's
say 1 point to five.
Now we would expect this to round up to 1.3.
But Python actually rounds that down to one point two.
Right.
And However if we round one point forty five it runs to one point four.
Which is well well we would have expected.
What's happening here as we discussed in the last video was banned because rounding we're always rounding
to the closest even digits.
Right well the closest multiple that has an even less significant digit to be more precise in the case
of Tides.
So with 1.2 five and with a power of 10 to the negative one another what's the closest multiple of zero
point one.
We have either 1.3 or 1.4 right.
Sorry 1.2 or 1.3.
So 1.2 has an even less significant digits and 1.3 has an odd least significant digit.
So we're going to pick one point two.
However in the case of 1.3 5 which is between 1.3 and 1.4 for 1.4 Caite's equidistant between the two
and 1.4 has an even less significant digit.
So we're going to pick one point four.
And this also works with negative numbers so if we do negative 1 to 5 and we do negative 1.3 5 you'll
notice that we get the same thing.
It runs to the closest
multiple of 0.1.
And in the event of a tie it picks the one that hasn't even least significant digit.
So in this case and for in the case of negative one point three five.
So that's called banker's rounding.
We discussed that in the last video and some detail.
And that's really the kind of the default rounding that we have in Python and in many other languages
as well.
It has less bias as we saw than the rounding that we're used to which is called Rounding away from zero.
We're always rounding away from 0 to 1.2 5 rounds up to 1.3 and Negat of 1.2 five all round down to
negative 1.3 in both cases we're rounding away from zero.
So that's why it's called round you know rounding to the closest with ties away from 0.
Now if you really want to implement that method you're kind of on your own.
It's not built into Python you're going to have to do it yourself.
And so we can do it this way.
Now when we get to decimals and then some of the next videos and the upcoming videos those do have those
model that Mondial does have all these different rounding techniques.
So there we don't have to reinvent the wheel but for floats However we're left with this round function.
We don't have anything else.
We don't have a way of specifying a different rounding mechanism.
So we kind of have to do it ourselves again.
I'll refer you back to the previous video if you haven't seen it so let's go ahead and just write it
ourselves.
Now a common technique.
Right.
I cannot write a function call wrong because it's already defined.
So I mean yes I can.
But the problem is that now in this current module what I call wrong it's always going to call my function
wrong.
Right.
So let's try this.
Let's say something really stupid.
Right.
It returns a string.
So now if I say round of ten point five it returns a that's really not what I want.
Right.
So I'm going to restart the Colonel and get rid of this I don't want to redefine wrong.
So instead what I'm going to do is I'm going to call it underscore wrong.
That's a pretty common way if you're going to be using a function name that would shadow a built in
function then you just put an underscore in front of it.
And so it's not the same thing it's differentiated but the name is for the same.
So I want to keep it as wrong.
Right.
But you know maybe that's not what you want to do.
Maybe you want to say round the ties or away from zero.
You can certainly do that as well.
I don't want to have to write that every time I called around function.
So I'm going to call this code raw.
And now this is only going to round to an integral value.
So this technique only works for rounding up you know to an integral value.
So from math import we need the copy sign right.
We need that copy sign method that's in the math module.
And then remember we had that slightly simplified formula.
We're going to say X costs 0.5 times copy's find one x.
So that's all wrong function.
And there was a slightly longer way of doing it as well if you remember from the last video.
I'm only going to show you this method here.
So now if we call round 1.5 that's going to be all previous.
Our built in method right.
The the round two pulses with ties to the even least significant digit value.
And then we'll also count call Sorry wrong 1.5 with our round function.
And what happens well in both cases we rounded up to two and that's expected because 1.5 is between
1 and 2 2 has.
So it's equal distance and 2 is the one with the least significant even digits.
Right.
And then 1.5 we ran away from 0 so that should go to 2.
Now we can try that again with this time 2.5 and we'll call all function 2.5 K so Nakia what we expect
and what we get.
Well 2.5 is between two and three equidistant that's a tie.
So as a tiebreaker we pick the one that has an even least significant digit.
Well two is even three is odd.
We picked two.
So round 2.5 returns two but all method that runs away from zero return three.
And so that work correctly and you have the same thing will happen if we deal with negative numbers.
Let's put that in.
As you can see negative 1.5 the both methods rounded to negative 2.
And in this case here round negative 2.5 also ran into negative to same as the one point negative 1.5
over here.
But all around method runs away from zero.
Always.
And so we ran into negative 3.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.